## DevOps

Scripts for managing the Magistrala IoT platform. For installation instructions, refer to [Magistrala Kubernetes Documentation](https://docs.magistrala.abstractmachines.fr/kubernetes/).

### Autogenerating Helm Chart Documentation

The documentation for Magistrala Helm charts in `charts/magistrala/README.md` is generated using `helm-docs`, which extracts metadata from `Chart.yaml` and `values.yaml`. To update the documentation after changes, follow these steps:

### Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure the following tools are installed:

1. **Helm**  
   Make sure [Helm](https://helm.sh) is installed on your system. If not, follow the [Helm installation guide](https://helm.sh/docs) to get started.

2. **Helm Docs Tool**  
   The documentation for the Magistrala Helm charts is autogenerated using the `helm-docs` tool. To install `helm-docs`, use the following command:

   ```bash
   go install github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs/cmd/helm-docs@latest
   ```

   If Go is not installed, follow the [Go installation guide](https://golang.org/doc/install).

### Step 1: Navigate to Your Project Directory

First, move to the directory where the Helm charts are stored. For this project, the command would be:

```bash
cd devops
```

### Step 2: Run the `helm-docs` Command

Generate or update the documentation for your Helm charts by running:

```bash
helm-docs
```

This command will parse the charts in the `charts` directory and update the `charts/magistrala/README.md` file. A typical successful run looks like this:

```bash
INFO[2024-09-11T11:34:20+03:00] Found Chart directories [charts/magistrala]
INFO[2024-09-11T11:34:20+03:00] Generating README Documentation for chart charts/magistrala
```

### Step 3: Commit and Push the Changes

After `helm-docs` has updated the documentation, review the changes, and then commit and push them to your Git repository:

```bash
git add charts/magistrala/README.md
git commit -m "Update Helm chart documentation"
git push origin <your-branch>
```

Replace `<your-branch>` with the branch you are working on.

### Vault Setup Update

To add the Vault scripts from the `magistrala` repository as a subtree into the `devops` repository, run the following commands:

```bash
git remote add magistrala https://github.com/absmach/magistrala.git
git fetch magistrala
git subtree split --prefix=docker/addons/vault --branch magistrala-vault-split magistrala/main
git subtree add --prefix=scripts/vault magistrala-vault-split --squash
git subtree pull --prefix=scripts/vault magistrala docker/addons/vault --squash
```

Since we have added the `magistrala` Vault directory as a subtree in the `devops` repository, we only include the `docker/addons/vault` directory and its contents in `scripts/vault` directory. We do not include `docker/.env` or other unrelated directories from the `magistrala` repository.

As a result, running the Vault setup scripts from within the `scripts/vault/scripts` directory may throw the following error:

```bash
scripts/vault/scripts/vault_init.sh: line 36: docker/.env: No such file or directory
```

This is because the vault scripts from `magistrala` set the default `.env` file path to `docker/.env` but we do not have this directory in our repository structure. To resolve this, you need to explicitly pass the path to the `.env` file when running the Vault scripts, as shown below:

```bash
scripts/vault/scripts/vault_init.sh --env-file scripts/vault/scripts/.env
```

## License

This project is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](LICENSE).
